# Installing Databunker

## Just run as the Docker container

This is the easiest method to start with Data Bunker. Always use the latest version.

**For the first time**, you can fetch and start Databunker with the following command:

```
cd ~
mkdir -p data
chmod 0777 data
docker run -v ~/data:/databunker/data -p 3000:3000 \
  --rm --name dbunker paranoidguy/databunker
```

This command will init Databunker service, init database and start container.

This command will print **DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY** and **DATABUNKER_ROOTTOKEN**.

You can run: ```docker logs dbunker``` to view these important variables.

The database will be saved in the ~/data directory.

**DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY** is used to encrypt database records.

**DATABUNKER_ROOTTOKEN** is an access token to databunker API.


## Stop service

To stop Databunker container you can run the following command:

```
docker kill dbunker
```

# Run it again

You can run it again, after it was initalized. This time, you will have to provide the
**DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY** environment variable. Use the following command:

```
docker run -p 3000:3000 -v ~/data:/databunker/data \
  -e "DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY=**DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY**" \
  --rm --name dbunker paranoidguy/databunker
```

# Custom configuration

Databunker has a configuration file that you can alter to enable custom email gateway, notification urls,
twilio account (sms gateway), user serf-service behaviour, etc...

There are number of ways you can change configuration file in container, for example by creating your own Docker file.
Another option is to create this file outside of container in conf/ directory and mount this directory in container.

### You can do it as following:

1. Download default configuration file and place it in ~/conf/ directory.
```
mkdir ~/conf
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paranoidguy/databunker/master/databunker.yaml \ 
  -o ~/conf/databunker.yaml
```

2. After that you can alter the configuration file with your editor: **~/conf/databunker.yaml**

3. Run container and mount ~/conf/ directory:

```
docker run -p 3000:3000 -v ~/data:/databunker/data -v ~/conf:/databunker/conf \
  -e "DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY=**DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY**" \
  --restart unless-stopped --name dbunker paranoidguy/databunker
```

# SSL certificates

You can generate SSL certificates and place them in the /databunker/certs directory in the running container.

For example you can do this by mounting **/databunker/certs** to a local **~/certs/** directory as:

```
cd ~
mkdir -p certs
# generate certificates, check bellow
docker run -p 3000:3000 -v ~/data:/databunker/data \
  -v ~/certs:/databunker/certs \
  -e "DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY=**DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY**" \
  --rm --name dbunker paranoidguy/databunker

```

So, you need to prepare server.cer and server.key files.

## Generate self-signed certificates

You can do the following command to generate one:

```
cd ~
mkdir -p certs
cd certs
openssl req -new -newkey rsa:4096 -days 365 -nodes -x509 \
    -subj "/C=UK/ST=/L=London/O=Your-company Ltd./CN=databunker.your-company.com" \
    -keyout server.key -out server.cer
```

## Use certificates generated by letsencrypt

Copy letsencrypt file **privkey.pem** to ~/certs/server.key

Copy letsencrypt file **fullchain.pem** file to ~/certs/server.cer


# Create a test record

You can download and run a small test script that will create a user record, user app record, user consent, etc...

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paranoidguy/databunker/master/create-test-user.sh -o test.sh
chmod 755 ./test.sh
./test.sh **DATABUNKER_MASTERKEY**
```

You can now open browser at http://localhost:3000/

Use the following account details:

Email: test@paranoidguy.com

Phone: 4444

Code: 4444
